+++
title = "Quickstart"
weight = 1
+++

## Installation

**Rejigger** ships as a standalone executable with no external dependencies, so installing the app is as simple as downloading the binary for your platform from the [releases page](https://github.com/TheFriendlyCoder/rejigger/releases) and placing the binary in a folder accessible on your system path.

## Configuration
**Rejigger** uses a YAML formatted plain-text config file named `.rejig` or `.rejig.yml` in the current users home folder to store user preferences and information about the templates it knows about. Before you can make use of a template, you must first add a reference to it in your application config.

You can provide a direct link to an individual template using the `templates` property, or you can point to an inventory containing one or more templates using the `inventories` property. For simplicity, lets start by adding the following snippet of YAML content to a file named `.rejig` in your home folder:

```yaml
inventories:
  - namepace: demo
    type: git
    source: https://github.com/TheFriendlyCoder/rejigger.git
```

This will allow you to make use of the sample projects defined in the **rejigger** source project to illustrate how templates work.

## Creating a new project
Once you have the application installed and configured, you can try creating a new project using one of the demonstration templates. This can be done by running the following command:

```shell
rejig create ./projdir demo.simple 
```

This command will invoke the template named "simple" from the inventory named "demo", and create a new project based on that template in the folder "projdir". After invoking this command you should be prompted to provide values for 2 configuration parameters:

1. `project_name` - the name of the project to be generated
2. `version` - the initial version number for the project

After you provide values for these two parameters, **Rejigger** should clone the source template into the target folder, replacing all references to `project_name` and `version` with the values provided. You should see:

* a new file named `version.txt` should be created in the output folder, and this file should contain the version number you provided to the prompt
* another file named after the *project_name* should exist in the output folder (ie: `MyProj.txt`) and the contents of this file should read something like `This project, MyProj, was generated by Rejigger!`